# Quality Engineering test

> Truth can only be found in one place: the code. <br/>
> -- Robert C. Martin

## 1. Introduction

This test is intended for candidates applying to Quality Engineering positions at CloudWalk. We expect our Quality Engineers to have a solid software engineering foundation and familiarity with software development best practices. To check that we propose a simple programming challenge that will let us know more about your skills. Our evaluation will cover the following aspects:

- Overall implementation (accuracy, readability, etc)
- Git skills (fragmentation, commit messages, etc)
- Documentation (source code, readme file, etc)
- Testability (testing framework, coverage, etc)

You are welcome to use a programming language that you are comfortable with.

## 2. Requirements

- Git
- A development environment
- Quake game [log](https://gist.github.com/cloudwalk-tests/be1b636e58abff14088c8b5309f575d8)

## 3. Tasks

### 3.1. Log parser

Create a project to parse the Quake log file.

The log file was generated by a Quake 3 Arena server, including a great deal of information of every match.

The project should implement the following functionalities:

- Read the log file
- Group the game data of each match
- Collect kill data

#### Example

```
21:42 Kill: 1022 2 22: <world> killed Isgalamido by MOD_TRIGGER_HURT
```
  
_The player "Isgalamido" died because he was wounded and fell from a height enough to kill him._

```
2:22 Kill: 3 2 10: Isgalamido killed Dono da Bola by MOD_RAILGUN
```
  
_The player "Isgalamido" killed the player "Dono da Bola" using the Railgun weapon._
  
Example of grouped information for each match:

```json
"game_1": {
"total_kills": 45,
"players": ["Dono da bola", "Isgalamido", "Zeh"],
"kills": {
  "Dono da bola": 5,
  "Isgalamido": 18,
  "Zeh": 20
  }
}
```

Additional notes:

1. When `<world>` kill a player, that player loses -1 kill score.
2. Since `<world>` is not a player, it should not appear in the list of players or in the dictionary of kills.
3. The counter `total_kills` includes player and world deaths.

## 3.2. Report

Create a script that prints a report (grouped information) for each match and a player ranking.

## 3.3. Plus

Generate a report of deaths grouped by death cause for each match.

Death causes (extracted from [source code](https://github.com/id-Software/Quake-III-Arena/blob/master/code/game/bg_public.h))

```c
// means of death
typedef enum {
  MOD_UNKNOWN,
  MOD_SHOTGUN,
  MOD_GAUNTLET,
  MOD_MACHINEGUN,
  MOD_GRENADE,
  MOD_GRENADE_SPLASH,
  MOD_ROCKET,
  MOD_ROCKET_SPLASH,
  MOD_PLASMA,
  MOD_PLASMA_SPLASH,
  MOD_RAILGUN,
  MOD_LIGHTNING,
  MOD_BFG,
  MOD_BFG_SPLASH,
  MOD_WATER,
  MOD_SLIME,
  MOD_LAVA,
  MOD_CRUSH,
  MOD_TELEFRAG,
  MOD_FALLING,
  MOD_SUICIDE,
  MOD_TARGET_LASER,
  MOD_TRIGGER_HURT,
#ifdef MISSIONPACK
  MOD_NAIL,
  MOD_CHAINGUN,
  MOD_PROXIMITY_MINE,
  MOD_KAMIKAZE,
  MOD_JUICED,
#endif
  MOD_GRAPPLE
} meansOfDeath_t;
```

#### Example

```json
"game-1": {
  "kills_by_means": {
    "MOD_SHOTGUN": 10,
    "MOD_RAILGUN": 2,
    "MOD_GAUNTLET": 1,
    ...
  }
}
```

## 4. Deliverable

You are expected to submit a compacted git repository by e-mail or you could share access to you private repo with qe-account@cloudwalk.io

Enjoy :)